US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has urged Israel not to further escalate
the ongoing conflict with Hezbollah
across the Israel Lebanon border both
sides have been exchanging fire on an
almost daily basis since the Hamas
terror attack on Israel late last year
earlier this week Israel's military
revealed that it had approved an
operational plan to invade Lebanon and
secure the Border let's take a look at
each side's military capabilities and
what this would mean if a war broke out
Hezbollah Rockets fired from Southern
Lebanon intercepted by Israeli air
defenses a common occurrence in recent
weeks but some of those Rockets make it
through and Israel has retaliated with
devastating air
strikes Hezbollah was founded as an
anti-American and anti-israel militia in
the 1980s when it carried out deadly car
bombings on American forces in Lebanon
the group has fought several Wars with
Israel since then and has become a major
political Force backed by hundreds of
millions of dollars in funding from
Iran the militia prizes secrecy and
typically doesn't reveal information on
its capabilities so any estimates of its
forces are just that but in recent years
us intelligence has put its strength at
45,000 soldiers including full-time and
reservist Fighters the group's leader
referred to having 100,000 fighters in
2021 if that were true it would have
more soldiers than the Lebanese
Army last year the US estimated that
Hezbollah also has 150,000 rockets and
missiles more than enough to overwhelm
Israeli air defenses and cause
significant damage to infrastructure in
a
war Israel has one of the world's most
modern militaries in addition to 170,000
active duty soldiers there are about
465,000
reservists it also has about 1,400 tanks
as as well as significant artillery and
multiple rocket launching capabilities
it also has an Air Force with over 200
jet fighters and almost 150 helicopters
and it's widely considered to have
nuclear weapons though it's unlikely to
use them right across its own
border there's also the Iron Dome an
advanced anti-missile system that has
intercepted thousands of rockets from
Hezbollah and Hamas something Hezbollah
itself
lacks an allout War would likely cause
significant damage to Israeli and
Lebanese cities with high civilian
casualties after months of fighting
Hamas in Gaza Israel's Army is also in
danger of being
overstretched and there are worries that
intense fighting could bring in Iran and
the US in a major regional
conflict let's get more from DW
correspondent Rebeca rits who's
following events in Jerusalem Rebecca is
the Israeli Army prepared for a possible
two-front War One against Hamas in the
Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in
Lebanon well beish the Israeli military
maintain that they are prepared for
anything they have had troops stationed
up in that northern border region since
the very beginning of the war with Gaza
when Hezbollah began uh attacking the
Northern parts of Israel on the 8th of
October they've been training up there
just in June there was a rather large
training exercise almost a full scale
Preparatory exercise for what would
happen under an attack and how uh they
might proceed with an attack of their
own and just this week we also heard
from the military to say that they had
green lit now and a plan of attack for
carrying out a full-scale confrontation
with Hezbollah in Lebanon uh there is
little doubt though that a twoof front
War would stretch a military that has
you know troops and and uh you know
resources tied up in many fronts also
not forgetting the the amount of troops
and resources that are tied up also in
the occupied West Bank so military
experts certainly wouldn't probably
recommend opening up a second front at
the same time and that's certainly what
they the Israeli military have been
trying to hold off from doing they
certainly wanted to try and at least
wrap up the the war that they have is
ongoing in Gaza before they opened up
that second front but as that war in
Gaza drags on uh you know we may see
that they will be confronted with the
decision of having to open up the second
front and on Thursday the Israeli Army
claimed to have killed a Hezbollah
commander in southern Lebanon what is
Israel's strategy Behind These targeted
killings well in lie of carrying out a
fullon confrontation with Hezbollah to
try to push the militant group back from
the border to allow for uh their some
60,000 residents to return to those
border communities uh the Israeli
military have been continuing and
carrying out this tit fortat uh conflict
with hezb militants and you know in that
tit fortat they have been targeting
Hezbollah commanders in order these
targeting attacks as well as also
infrastructure targets weapons depos
launching sites and the and the like in
order to try to mitigate some of the the
tip fortat that's coming in the other
direction and to try to lessen the force
that Hezbollah has and of course lessen
the resources and the force that
Hezbollah have uh and its ability to try
uh and attack those Northern Communities
so that certainly and a strategy there I
I I I think what we we're likely to see
is a further conf confrontation that
will go further than these targeted
attacks and is there support among the
Israeli population for a possible
offensive against
Hezbollah I think the answer to that
question is certainly yes the people
I've spoken to support might be a strong
word there because you know I don't
think it's that Israel particularly
wants to go to war and certainly to open
a second front at a time when its
resources are stretched
but it is when you speak to people
residents in particular there's a
resignation that this is a necessary
step when I've been up in the north and
I was there again yesterday and in
previous reporting trips up there when
you talk to people they say that they
would simply wouldn't return to those
communities if an allout War isn't
carried out if hezb is not pushed back
they they said that a political solution
simply wouldn't make them feel safe
enough and even when you talk to
Residents that aren't from those border
communities people in hia for example
the northern the biggest northern city
you know they say that they are
expecting this to to happen and that
they do think it's necessary we'll leave
it there for the moment DW's in
Jerusalem thanks so much